The 1980s introduced Japan as a powerhouse and defining factor in the video games industry. With most video game consoles such as the Nintendo Famicom and the Sega Master System coming out of Japan, along with a large array of developers such as Square, Koei and Enix, Japan was set to lead the global video game market through the 1980s and through much of the 1990s.

The 1990s were an era of exceptionalism in the Japanese video game industry, each game introducing vastly different ideas and innovative ideas reigning and defining genres to create what are now very well known series' such as Pokemon and the Final Fantasy series. As franchises like Dragon Quest gradually became more popular, speciality stores such as the Pokemon Centers and the Dragon Quest Museum have opened up in Tokyo.

The 2000s are considered to be a time of decline in the Japanese Video Game industry, in 2002, the Japanese video game industry held around 50% of the global market share, but by 2010 it had dropped to 10% (Cieslak, 2010). However, by 2016, the Japanese video game industry and JRPGs as a genre are beginning to enter a new period of growth and innovation.

Dragon Quest is a particular series that has gained widespread fame in Japan, with even adults and celebrities confessing their love for the series. Keiko Awaji, a Japanese Actress, famous for her movies such as Stray Dog (1949) and The Bridges at Toko-Ri (1954), on the topic of the Dragon Quest series, mentioned: _"I won't live forever," said Awaji. "I'd like to play two or more games... I really want them to put out a new game once every two years." (Ashcraft, 2009)._

# Thanks for reading! I hope you had as much fun reading the site as much as I did making it!