> > > > > > > > > > > > # The Golden Age of Console RPGs

> _The ‘golden age’ of console RPGs is often dated from the 1990s to the early 2000s. Console RPGs distinguished themselves from computer RPGs to a greater degree in the early 1990s. As console RPGs became more heavily story-based than their computer counterparts, one of the major differences that emerged during this time was in the portrayal of the characters. Most American computer RPGs at the time had characters devoid of personality or background as their purpose was to represent avatars which the player could use to interact with the world. This contrasted with Japanese console RPGs, in which pre-defined characters were depicted who had distinctive personalities, traits, and relationships, such as Final Fantasy, with players assuming the roles of people who cared about each other, fell in love or even had families._

In the 1990s games were redefined by new features that were implemented into the gameplay. Players could have much more control over their games through the introduction of the Job System (a character progression engine allowing the player to change the character classes, acquire new ones and combine abilities). The job system allowed for unique playstyles to be created and for more replay-ability. A new feature called Tactics gave the player even more control by allowing the allied party members in, for example, Final Fantasy, to be modified by putting them in attack mode or defend mode while still maintaining full control of the main character.

In the 1990s the post-apocalyptic theme was very popular with games such as Megami Tensei II and Crystalis.

The early 1990s also saw the release of the first Fire Emblem game; Fire Emblem Ankoku Ryu to Hikari no Tsurugi. This game set the template for the tactical RPG genre. Strategy RPG's were very popular and with these new features that made modifications easy, they became more fun. Even more fun was the introduction of the ability to kill townspeople in 1991 in Final Fantasy Adventure.

The most important game, however, was Final Fantasy IV for its complex, involving plot. It also introduced a new battle system: The "Active Time Battle" (ATB) system, developed by Hiroyuki Ito. In this battle system the time does not stop when making fighting decisions.On the battle screen, each character has an ATB meter that gradually fills, and the player is allowed to issue a command to that character once the meter is full. The fact that enemies can attack or be attacked at any time is credited with injecting urgency and excitement into the combat system. The ATB combat system was considered revolutionary for being a hybrid between turn-based and real-time combat, with its requirement of faster reactions from players appealing to those who were more used to action games.

One of the games that put this ATB combat system to full use was Chrono Trigger, which was released in 1995 by Square.

Another interesting feature that was introduced in this Golden Age of Video Games was the multiplayer mode. Introducing the cooperative multiplayer mode into the RPG genre was Seiken Dendetsu 2 (Also known as Secret of Mana in North America and Europe).
