Final Fantasy VII (1997), with its use of 3D graphics and CD-ROM discs, was an important milestone that popularized the genre worldwide. After Final Fantasy VII, the subsequent entries in the series continued to use full motion video cutscenes, with each entry being given a larger budget for development.

Final Fantasy VII had a production budget of $45 million (1up, 2011), an unprecedented amount of money to spend on a video game at the time. Along with the large production budget came an expansive world, a 40 hour long quest, a large array of sidequests and minigames and high quality graphics.

One of the technical innovations introduced by the game was the use of 3D characters on pre-rendered backgrounds, allowing very detailed levels and set pieces. Final Fantasy VII was also one of the first games that used full motion video to seamlessly blend into the gameplay (1up, 2011), which is now a commonly used technique in modern day JRPGs and Western RPGs alike.

Gameplay innovations included the materia system, which allowed a considerable amount of customization and flexibility through materia that can be combined in many different ways and exchanged between characters at any time, and the limit breaks, special attacks that can be performed after a character's limit meter fills up by taking hits from opponents.[251] The materia system is similar to, but more sophisticated than, the slotted item system in Diablo II (2000).[254] Final Fantasy VII continues to be listed among the best games of all time, for its highly polished gameplay, high playability, lavish production, well-developed characters, intricate storyline,[253] and an emotionally engaging narrative that is much darker and sophisticated than most other RPGs.[255] The game's storytelling and character development was considered a major narrative jump forward for video games and was often compared to films and novels at the time.[256]

Final Fantasy VII has solidified its role as one of the best and most influential games of all time, setting a precedent for almost all modern JRPGs, selling well over 18 million copies world wide, grossing over $1.697 billion world wide (VGSales, 2017).

Final Fantasy VII continues to be listed among the best games of all time, for its highly polished gameplay, high playability, lavish production, well-developed characters, intricate storyline,[253] and an emotionally engaging narrative that is much darker and sophisticated than most other RPGs.
